In a person, everything should be beautiful: face, clothing, soul, and thoughts; Anton Chekhov; play Uncle Vanya; beauty and spirituality; beauty, person, soul, thoughts, harmony.
Happy people donĺt watch the clock; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; time and happiness; happiness, time, carefreeness, emotions.
The less we love a woman, the easier we please her; Alexander Pushkin; novel in verse Eugene Onegin; love and relationship psychology; love, relationships, strategy.
Great, mighty, truthful and free Russian language; Ivan Turgenev; prose poem Russian Language; Russian language and patriotism; language, Russia, strength, freedom, patriotism.
And who are the judges?; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; criticism and hypocrisy; criticism, hypocrisy, judgement, authority.
Iĺd be glad to serve Ś but fawning is nauseating; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; honor and dignity; service, honor, dignity, independence.
To be or not to be Ś that is the question; William Shakespeare (translated by Boris Pasternak); tragedy Hamlet; existential choice; choice, life, death, doubt, philosophy.
Brevity is the soul of wit; Anton Chekhov; letter to brother Alexander, April 11, 1889; art of writing; brevity, talent, style, conciseness.
Man Ś that sounds proud!; Maxim Gorky; play At the Bottom; human value; man, dignity, pride, value.
Blessed is he who believes Ś itĺs warm for him in this world!; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; faith and optimism; faith, optimism, confidence, worldview.
May we be spared above all sorrows both the masterĺs wrath and the masterĺs love; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; dependence on power; power, dependence, caution, fate.
You canĺt go anywhere in the carriage of the past; Maxim Gorky; play At the Bottom; moving forward; past, future, progress, development.
He who is born to crawl cannot fly; Maxim Gorky; The Song of the Falcon; potential and limitations; potential, limitations, fate, possibilities.
Even the smoke of the fatherland is sweet and pleasant to us; Alexander Griboyedov; play Woe from Wit; patriotism and homeland; homeland, patriotism, nostalgia, attachment.
There are people necessary to society like spring; Alexander Herzen; My Past and Thoughts; social significance of the individual; society, individual, significance, influence.
An Ordinary Story; Ivan Goncharov; novel An Ordinary Story; growing up and disillusionment; growing up, reality, illusions, experience.
God forbid to see a Russian riot, senseless and merciless; Alexander Pushkin; novella The Captainĺs Daughter; riot and chaos; riot, chaos, history, cruelty.
Moscowů how much in this sound is united for the Russian heart!; Alexander Pushkin; novel in verse Eugene Onegin; love for the city; Moscow, patriotism, city, feelings.
Nature is not a temple but a workshop, and man is a worker in it; Ivan Turgenev; novel Fathers and Sons; man and nature; nature, work, man, science.
If you suffer long enough, something will come of it; Vladimir Vysotsky; song If a Friend Turned Out to Be Suddenlyů; perseverance and labor; labor, perseverance, result, persistence.

